The really interesting thing about Harvey Weinstein and you choosing these
exceptionally difficult cases is also thinking about
what it means to defend evil people. What,
what it means to defend these, we could say,
and you might push back against the, the word evil, but bad people in society.
Um, first of all,
do you think there's such a thing as evil or do you think all people are good
and it's just circumstances that create evil and also is there
somebody too evil for the law to defend?
Right. So that's a, so the first question, that's a deep, uh,
philosophical question, whether the category of evil, uh,
does any work, uh, for me, uh, it, it does for me, I,
I do think that, uh,
I do subscribe to that category that there is, uh, evil,
uh, in the world as conventionally. Uh, understood. So, uh,
so there are many who will say, yeah,
that just doesn't doesn't do any work for me. Uh, but, uh,
the category evil, in fact, does intellectual work for me. And I,
I understand it as, as, as something that, uh, that, uh, exists.
Um, is it genetic or is it the circumstance? Like what,
what kind of work does it do for you intellectually?
I think that it's, uh, highly contingent.
That is to say that the conditions in which one
grows up and so forth, uh, uh, uh,
begins to create this category that we may think of as evil.
Now, there are, um, studies and, and, and whatnot that show that, uh,
certain, um, uh, brain abnormalities and so forth are,
are more prevalent in say serial killer.
So there may be a biological predisposition to certain
forms of conduct, but, um, uh, I don't, uh,
I don't have the, uh,
biological evidence to make a statement that someone is born evil and,
and, you know, uh, I I'm, I'm not a determinist thinker in that way.
So you come out the womb evil, and you're destined to be that way, um,
to the extent, or maybe biological, uh, determinants, uh,
that still require some, um, uh, nurture, uh, as well.
Um, so, but.
Do you still put a responsibility for the, on the individual? Of.
Course, yeah. We all make choices. And so some responsibility,
uh, on the individual, indeed,
we live in a culture, unfortunately,
where a lot of people have a constellation of
bad choices in front of them. And that makes me very sad. Yeah. Um,
that the people grow up with, with predominantly bad choices in,
in front of them. And that's unfair and that's that that's on all of us. Uh,
but yes, I do think we make, we make choices.
Wow. That's so powerful. The constellation of bad choices. I,
that's such a powerful way to think about sort of equality,
which is this, the set of trajectories before you,
that you could take, if you just roll the dice is a,
you know, life is, is a kind of optimization problem.
Sorry to take us into math over a set of trajectories under imperfect
information. Uh,
so you're gonna do a lot of stupid <laugh> to put it, uh,
in technical terms. Uh, but, uh,
the, the, the fraction of the trajectories take you into,
into bad places or into good places is really important.
And that's ultimately what we're talking about.
An evil might be just a little bit of a predisposition biologically,
but the rest is just trajectories that you can take.